---
{"title":"5. Creating new Spells","draft":false,"tags":null,"publish":true,"path":"1. The Magic/5. Creating new Spells.md","permalink":"/1-the-magic/5-creating-new-spells/","PassFrontmatter":true}
---

# Creating new Spells

**Spell Invention requirements**
Spells that cost 10 points or less don't require anything and can be created as long as you have writing materials and a workspace(May provide bonuses). For spells that costs more than 10 points GM may require a prerequisite spell or spells you must either have, buy or build in order to derive from in making the new spell. This would denote that for higher level spells the GM might make you create multiple spells that costs 10 points or less before you can attempt to create said spell. This process is always subject to change under the discretion of the GM and spells can be denied if deemed too powerful for its cost

**Spell Invention roll**
Once you have a workspace, materials and every prerequisite spell required you may start to conceptualize and shape a spell. Assembly takes the time shown on the Engineering Table. You may decide to spend more or less time on it (Time Spent, p. B346) before the GM rolls for the actual time. At the end of this time, roll against Thaumatology with the modifiers dictated by the Engineering table.

Critical Success: The device works perfectly, with no Quirks.
Success: It works, but it might have a few bugs. Head to Quirks Section (below).
Failure: The time was wasted and you roll on the first tear calamity table
Critical Failure: You wasted your time and a catastrophic failure happens (Roll on [[4. Mechanics/Tables#Critical Weaving Fail Tables\|Critical Fail Tables]]) 

**Quirks**
Quirks are small side effects that are mostly inconvenient. Depending on your margin of success and how crazy your methods are, your invention may have a few quirks. To determine this, follow these steps:
The GM rolls 1d for a normal inventor, 1d+2 with Gadgeteer
Subtract twice your margin of success.
This is how many bugs quirks your invention has, with a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 3. To remove quirks you must spend an hour per bug reformulating the spell and succeed a thaumatology roll to get rid of them, your character will only find out that a spell has quirks after he casts it. A colleague may proofread your spell by rolling their thaumatology skill, they discover bugs equal to their margin of Success. If the result of step 2 is negative, you make one additional copy for every full -4. 

- The Scroll is good for **one** use (Learning **or** Preparing)
- When learned or prepared, the scroll absorbs the resulting residue and becomes unusable
<br>
- New Trait: [Spell/Rune Crafter](../4.%20Mechanics/Traits.md#Spell/Rune%20Crafter)

<br>

**Side effects and multiple scrolls:**

- GM rolls 1d w/o "Crafter" or 1d+2 w "Crafter"
- Subtract *twice* margin of success from the creation-roll
<br>
- This is the amount of rolls on the [[4. Mechanics/Tables#Spell/Rune Crafting Side-Effects Tables\|Side-Effects Tables]]
- Maximum is 3
- If the roll comes out negative one additional scroll per -4 is created



---

> [!column]
>
> > [!warning|t-w no-i c-black] Spell-Creation Table: Without "Spell/Rune Crafter":
> >
> > | CP-Cost:  | Thaum. Roll | Time        |
> > | --------- | ----------- | ----------- |
> > | Up to 10   | -7          | 2d+2 hrs    |
> > | Up to 20  | -9          | 1d x 10 hrs |
> > | Up to 40  | -11         | 1d days     |
> > | Up to 60  | -13         | 2d days     |
> > | Up to 80  | -15         | 2dx4 days   |
> > | Up to 100  | -17         | 4d weeks    |
> > | Up to 120 | -19         | 6d weeks    |
> > | Up to 140 | -21         | 4dx2 weeks  |
> > | +20       | -2          | +1dx2 weeks |
>
> > [!warning|t-w no-i c-black] Spell-Creation Table: With "Spell/Rune Crafter":
> >
> > | CP-Cost:  | Thaum. Roll | Time       |
> > | --------- | ----------- | ---------- |
> > | Up to 10  | -2          | 2dx5 min   |
> > | Up to 20  | -3          | 4dx10 min  |
> > | Up to 40  | -5          | 2d hours   |
> > | Up to 60  | -6          | 4d hours   |
> > | Up to 80  | -8          | 2dx5 hours |
> > | Up to 100 | -9          | 1d days    |
> > | Up to 120 | -11         | 2d-1 days  |
> > | Up to 140 | -12         | 3d-2 days  |
> > | +20       | *           | +1d-1 days |
> > (*) Further levels alternate between -2 and -1
>

---

> [!column]
>
> > [!warning|t-w no-i c-black txt-c] Workspace Modifiers:
> >
> > | Workspace                             | w/o "Crafter" | w Crafter |
> > | ------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------- |
> > | None (wilderness, etc)                | -5            | -5        |
> > | Improvised (simple circle)            | 0             | 0         |
> > | Professional but wrong                |               |           |
> > | (e.g. shamanic site for Elementalism) | +2            | 0         |
> > | Professional and right                | +5            | +2        |
>
> > [!warning|t-w no-i c-black] Equipment Modifiers
> >
> >
> > | Equipment    | Quality           | Modifier |
> > | ------------ | ----------------- | -------- |
> > | Improvised   | n/a               | -2       |
> > | Scribe's Kit | Cheap (Cost x0.5) | -1       |
> > | Scribe's Kit | Average (Cost x1) | +0       |
> > | Scribe's Kit | Good (Cost x2)    | +1       |
> > | Scribe's Kit | Luxury (Cost x5)  | +2       |
> > 
> > **A Scribe's Kit contains:** 
> > - 20 sheets of parchment
> > - 1 lbs of ink
> > - A quill (100 pages of usage)
> >
> > Weight: 2 lbs
> > Average price: 50 $
>

---
